[MUSIC]
So, we're going to talk a little bit
about some more interesting sensors and
actuators that you can
connect to Raspberry Pi.
And we'll start off with the camera
module, Raspberry Pi's camera module.
Raspberry Pi is a Linux machine, right.
It's a Linux machine and
it's not a full Linux machine.
But it's a pretty good Linux machine.
And it has a USB interface that's just
like a desktop, laptop and so on.
So cameras, you can plug cameras into
the Raspberry Pi just like you could your
laptop, desktop, through the USB
port if you wanted to, right.
Cameras are very useful sensors for
IOT devices for many different
applications right, home security or
something like that, all kinds of things.
You want to have a camera, register
something, detect something, see movement,
whatever you want to do, right.
So cameras are useful in IOT devices and
you can connect a camera in
the traditional way, through the USB port.
You can just take any USB camera and plug
it into a Raspberry Pi if you want to.
So there are many that you could use
through USB, but there's another, this
Raspberry Pi camera module, and you see
a picture of it down there on the right.
That's the camera module you
can get from Raspberry Pi.
Now this thing has a special interface
to Raspberry Pi, not through USB, but
a more direct interface through
the camera serial interface.
So If you look on the left,
bottom left, you see a zoom in picture
of the Raspberry Pi's board and
see it says camera there.
That's a little plug that is the camera
serial interface to the processor.
And if you take one of these
Raspberry Pi camera modules and
plug it into that camera serial interface,
you get a more direct
connection from the camera to
the processor than you would through USB.
More direct meaning faster
also easier to control.
So there are a lot of libraries.
There are libraries that help you control
this camera and do things with the camera.
So this is a convenient way to
connect a camera to a Raspberry Pi.
So you buy one of the Raspberry Pi Camera
Modules, you plug it into this camera
plug, the CSI interface, and you can
use a lot of different camera features.
And you can do video, stills,
stuff like this, time lapse.
We'll go through a few of these,
but cameras are really important.
And they're more complicated Sensors.
They are not like a simple oh,
the light is on, light is off.
They are a little bit more
complicated than that.
So it's interesting to use them.
And the fact that you got a full-on Linux
machine, Raspberry Pi running Raspbian or
something like that, you got a Linux
machine behind it makes it easier to
do interesting things with the camera.
Yeah, so there are good libraries for
control built into the operating system.
So enabling the camera.
So if you want to plug in
one of these cameras, and
I don't expect that you
necessarily have it,
we're not going to require this in
the homework or anything like that.
But if you buy it, you can try it out.
So first you gotta enable
the camera in software.
So you use raspi-config to enable the CSI
interface, just to turn on that interface.
So, you connect to Raspberry Pi,
you type in raspi-config or
sudo raspi-config at the command line and
you'll start the configuration again,
which we've seen before actually when we
set up the machine in the first place.
Then you just go and, so
use sudo raspi-config.
Then you enable, it'll pop open a screen,
a GUI, sort of a GUI,
of course a bad GUI, but a simple GUI.
Put it like that, a simple GUI.
And it'll be a menu system,
you can select some options.
So select Enable Camera, and then select
Finish, and that will enable the camera.
It'll enable the camera interface anyway.
And at that point, once you've done that,
you reboot the machine.
And after that, you can actually access
the camera and use camera functions
to do things like snap pictures and
video and stuff like that.
Thank you.
[MUSIC]